Jenkins: Update configuration document (#188)
metal3-io/project-infra: jenkins/README.md

* They can add authors to whitelist so that the authors can start jobs on any
   further PR on their own, by commenting **add to whitelist** on the PR

## Commands

We have multiple jobs that run some integration tests. The jobs can be

> triggered on PR from metal3-dev-env, baremetal-operator, ironic-image and

Author: added

comment **add to whitelist** on the PR, the author will then be able to run the
jobs on its own.

## Cloud Resources cleanup

There is a Jenkins [master job](https://jenkins.nordix.org/view/Airship/job/airship_master_integration_tests_cleanup/)
that cleans up all the leftover VMs from
[CityCloud](https://www.citycloud.com/) every 6 hours which has failed to be
deleted at the end of v1alphaX integration test.

## "Can one of the admins verify this patch?"

For all the PRs from authors that are not whitelisted, the bot will add a
comment "*Can one of the admins verify this patch?*". This means that the author
is not in the whitelist and that someone from the metal3-io organization should
review the PR and run the tests (with */test-integration*) or add the author to
whitelist if trusted.

## Job logs

Pods, CRDs logs are collected at the end of each Jenkins job run and

> archive them so that they can be later used for debugging purposes. You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
archived so that they can be later used for debugging purposes. You can
```

find the archived logs under the  "*Build artifacts*" section of the
[job](https://jenkins.nordix.org/view/Airship/job/airship_metal3io_bmo_v1a4_integration_test_ubuntu/).

> Please note that, depending on which one happens first, logs will be wiped out after

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that, depending on which one happens first, logs will be removed after
```

> either 30 days of its life or 100 job runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
either 30 days of its life or 100 job runs, whichever occurs first.
```

> Please note that, depending on which one happens first, logs will be removed after
> either 30 days of its life or 100 job runs, whichever occurs first.

Reviewer: Now we have a duplication of "depending on which one happens first" and "whichever occurs first".
```suggestion
Please note that the logs will be removed 30 days after creation or after 100 subsequent job runs, whichever occurs first.
```

Author: ops, fixed

## Configuration

The jenkins configuration is stored in two places. The Nordix gerrit instance
contains the jenkins job configuration and the Github metal3-io/project-infra
repository contains the jobs pipeline.

> ### Jenkins Job Builder. a.k.a job definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Jenkins Job Builder, a.k.a job definition
```

rather than writing/creating them directly in Jenkins UI. Your YAML formatted job definition
will create a Jenkins job, which in turn executes your specified jenkins pipeline.
Check [Job definitions](https://docs.openstack.org/infra/jenkins-job-builder/definition.html) to
familiarize yourself with the JJB syntax. Our job definitions are stored in [Nordix Gerrit](https://gerrit.nordix.org/admin/repos/infra/cicd)
instance under `cicd/airship/` path. Please, note that [cicd](https://gerrit.nordix.org/admin/repos/infra/cicd)
gerrit repository includes job defitinions for other projects as well that share the same Jenkins environment.

When you add/remove a new job definition in `cicd/airship/` path, you will be able to see that job
added/removed in Jenkins UI under [airship window](https://jenkins.nordix.org/view/Airship/)

![webhook](images/jenkins_ui.png)

### Job Declarative Pipeline

We use [declarative pipeline syntax](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/) to tell what we want to do
when Jenkins executes our pipeline. Pipelines are stored [metal3-io/project-infra](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/tree/master/jenkins/jobs).

> In nutshell, pipelines defines sequence of steps to be executed. Each step can run a script or perform something else. For example, [integration_tests.pipeline](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/master/jenkins/jobs/integration_tests.pipeline) executes following scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a nutshell, pipelines defines sequence of steps to be executed. Each step can run a script or perform something else. For example, [integration_tests.pipeline](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/master/jenkins/jobs/integration_tests.pipeline) executes following scripts
```

1. [clones](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/0a6cc3f9f8592914a316c27ea2411ccb48aba7c3/jenkins/jobs/integration_tests.pipeline#L65) git repository
2. [jenkins/scripts/integration_test.sh](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/master/jenkins/scripts/integration_test.sh)
3. [/jenkins/scripts/fetch_logs.sh script](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/master/jenkins/scripts/fetch_logs.sh)
4. [/jenkins/scripts/integration_test_clean.sh](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/master/jenkins/scripts/integration_test_clean.sh)
5. [/jenkins/scripts/integration_delete.sh](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/master/jenkins/scripts/integration_delete.sh)

### GitHub Pull Request Builder, a.k.a. ghprb

> For our Jenkins to work with Github we need [GitHub Pull Request Builder](https://plugins.jenkins.io/ghprb/), a.k.a. ghprb plugin installed in Jenkins. This is already done by Nordix admins. The plugin handles everything related to your PR. In short, ghprb exposes a weebhook endpoint where GutHub webhook service can send webhook calls to. Current Jenkins ghprb webhook is exposed at https://jenkins.nordix.org/ghprbhook/, and most of the Metal3 GitHub repositories have webhooks configured to redirect webhook calls to that URL.

Author: That's normal, because it is webhook url, it won't show anything when you hit the URL

When configuring GitHub webhooks: 

1. Paste the ghprb URL in **Payload URL**;

1. select application/json for the **Content Type**;

1. check the following scopes for **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?**;

   - `Issue comments`
   - `Pull requests`

We use [metal3-jenkins](https://github.com/metal3-jenkins) GitHub bot account which reports
job status on a pull request. The bot is a public member of Metal3 GitHub org. To use this bot
with Jenkins ghprb, a GitHub personal access token was generated with the following scope checked:

![status](images/status.png)

To use the token in Jenkins, `metal3-jenkins-github-token` secret is created in Jenkins credentials.
See the usage [reference](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/12660dd59d368c86e471007d86ca781cf2539ec9/jenkins/jobs/integration_tests.pipeline#L3).

> You can see ghprb logs in [here](https://jenkins.nordix.org/log/GHPRB/), which shows which jobs have used the plugin during their run.

Reviewer 3: Permission is denied when trying to access the URL, seems we have to mention who can access the logs above?

Author: added, thanks

> Sometimes, when changing the crendetials related to ghprb, the system might still be using the old credentials. If you see that your changes aren't

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes, when changing the credentials related to ghprb, the system might still be using the old credentials. If you see that your changes aren't
```

> Sometimes when changing the crendetials related to ghprb, the system might still be using the old credentials. If you see that your changes aren't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes, when changing the crendetials related to ghprb, the system might still be using the old credentials. If you see that, your changes aren't
```

Reviewer: I disagree with that change. The point of this sentence is that user will "see that changes aren't taking effect", not that "see that system might still be using old credentials".

taking affect, you could try to clean up the ghprb cache in Jenkins.

### Some other secrets in Jenkins

- `metal3-jenkins-github-username-token` - stores the username of the metal3-jenkins GitHub bot account.
   Used by Jenkins Job Builders.

- `metal3-clusterctl-github-token` - stores a GitHub token for use in Metal3
   integration tests with no permissions. This is to avoid GitHub API limitations for unauthenticated
   users. Used by [pipeline](https://github.com/metal3-io/project-infra/blob/12660dd59d368c86e471007d86ca781cf2539ec9/jenkins/jobs/integration_tests.pipeline#L88).

> Sometimes, your changes might not take effect and you need to flash out Jenkins cache.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if we can add it here but [this](https://www.tech693.com/2018/07/jenkins-how-to-clear-cache.html) seems to be good explanation of how to do that.

Author: We did it via GUI, not sure neither if we need this.

> Sometimes your changes might not take affect and you need to flash out Jenkins cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes your changes might not take effect and you need to flash out Jenkins cache.
```

pre-baked Kubernetes executables. The image building script for CentOS can be
found [here](https://github.com/Nordix/airship-dev-tools/blob/master/ci/images/gen_metal3_centos_image.sh).

> ## Job logs

Reviewer 4: This section is removed. Is this not true anymore?

Author: It is, we just moved it a bit up https://github.com/Nordix/metal3-project-infra/tree/add-jenkins-instructions/feruz/jenkins#job-logs

Author: It is, it just moved a bit up https://github.com/Nordix/metal3-project-infra/tree/add-jenkins-instructions/feruz/jenkins#job-logs
